Changelog 2.4 (#326)
PelionIoT/meta-pelion-edge: CHANGELOG.md

- [maestro] The FeatureMgmt config resource is initialized with a maximum 3.8KB of file content. The remaining file content is truncated during initialization. This is most likely due to the limitation of the gorilla/websocket library but needs further investigation. However, you can still push a file size of a maximum of 64KB through cloud service APIs.
- [pt-example] `cpu-temperature` device reports random values because the default CPU temperature file is not the same on Yocto and LmP.
- The LmP build will enable SW TPM and Parsec stacks by default in all configuration, including developer certificate configurations. However, as it will not be used or set up in those configurations the logs will show some TPM related errors - those logs can be ignored.

#### AVNET ZU3EG

- If you enable kernel configurations [CPU_IDLE](https://cateee.net/lkddb/web-lkddb/CPU_IDLE.html) and [PREEMPT](https://cateee.net/lkddb/web-lkddb/PREEMPT.html), the LmP release including PetaLinux 2020.2 does not work in a stable manner. Our default configuration has those disabled. If you have any issues with those configurations, please contact Xilinx support.

> - You cannot do firmware update from Edge 2.2 to Edge 2.3 on the AVNET ZU3EG board due to LmP v79 release FPGA-support changes. The changes have interdepencies between the BOOT image and kernel image and as in the current update you can only update ther kernel image it fails to boot up correctly with the Edge 2.2 based BOOT image (as it does not supply the required updated device tree/FPGA files etc.). So, update to Edge 2.3 image must be done with manual flashing on ZU3EG targets.

Reviewer: @ygoyal18 : This firmware update issue is across all the boards. cc: @petedyerarm

Reviewer 2: I think this should be removed and due to to partition changes updates from 2.3 -> 2.4 are not possible, on any targets. Not just AVNET ZU3EG.

Reviewer: However, it is still a critical issue. We should move it to the known issue list.

Reviewer 3: Its not really an "issue." An issue is something that can be fixed.  My suggestion is we make it a limitation.  See my suggestion below.
```suggestion
```

   - Access TPM resource through Parsec APIs from within the container application.
   - The storage of secure assets, such as keys, is separated on a per-client basis: Assets created by one client can't be accessed by another.
   - Use `securityContext` in the Pod specifications to restrict the privileges and access control of an application to system resources.
- [edge-core] Updated Edge Core to [0.18.0](https://github.com/PelionIoT/mbed-edge/releases/tag/0.18.0).
   - Start edge-core service `After=network-online.target` which is after gateway acquires routeable IP address.
   - Restrict access to mbed configuration `/userdata/mbed`, setting permissions to 700 with owner=root.
   - Added BYOC_MODE build flow. This enables you to inject the certificates into the image at runtime rather than compile time hence enabling you to create generic developer builds.
- [edge-tool] Added [Edge tool v0.2.0](https://github.com/PelionIoT/mbed-edge/tree/master/edge-tool).
   - Installed only when build with `BYOC_MODE=ON`.
   - Converts the development certificate to CBOR configuration object which is then provided to Edge Core as command line argument.

> - [TBC] LmP RPi3/4 support.

Reviewer 2: What is TBC?

- [TBC] Add support for Hummingboard Solid with booting from SD card.
- [TBC] Network policy

>    - allows kubelet and kube-router to function without external network. Supports offline cache mode

Reviewer 2: allows -> Allows. ending dot missing (in other places, too).

> - [TBC] UZ - align wks.in file usage with i.mx8

Reviewer 2: UZ3EG

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Board specific improvements] 
    - UZ3EG - align wks.in file usage with i.mx8
    - RPI - use miniurt bt dtoverlay to enable bluetooth 
             - use standard tty console config
             - fixes ble to work properly
    - Boards with Nordic nRF5: dependency to pc-ble-driver into local.conf config, default **off** 
```

- [TBC] Change default image file name for MFG tool - `MFGTOOL_FLASH_IMAGE = "console-image-lmp"`.
- [TBC] Removed meta-arm-autonomy layer.
- [TBC] add dependency to pc-ble-driver into config, default off
- Enable `wifi` by default for all targets.
- Added imx8mmsolidrun meta layer.
- [TBC] Added support for full image update.
- [TBC] Prevent duplicate deployment. 
   - Modifed to check if the commit has been deployed before making the deployment. This will prevent an issue where a previous deploy can get over-written which in turn would break the rollback functionality.
- [parsec] Upgraded parsec-se-driver to 0.5.0, parsec-service to 0.7.2 and parsec-tool to 0.3.0.

>    - Set the parsec sock directory permission to 0750

Reviewer 2: sock -> socket

Reviewer 3: fixed below

- [TBC] Simplified the partition layout - https://github.com/PelionIoT/meta-mbed-edge/pull/51 
- [TBC] Generic `mx8mm` support - Instead of using the imx8mmevk target, let's use mx8mm to generalize the support as the current changed should run on all targets. Generalizing thus to the SoC level target `mx8mm`.
- [TBC] Removed `networkmanager-nmtui` and instead installed `networkmanager-nmcli`.
- [TBC] use miniuart bt dtoverlay to enable bluetooth

>    - just use standard console and ble settings

Reviewer 4: for RPi devices

Reviewer 3: fixed

> - [TBC] Use standard tty config, fixes ble

Reviewer 5: Maybe this and "use miniuart bt dtoverlay..." above should be marked with prefix `RPi:` as those are Raspberry Pi specific. @TapaniPuhakka

Reviewer 2: Agree.

Reviewer 3: fixed.

> - [TBC] Change default image file name for MFG tool - `MFGTOOL_FLASH_IMAGE = "console-image-lmp"`.
> - [TBC] Removed meta-arm-autonomy layer.
> - [TBC] add dependency to pc-ble-driver into config, default off
> - Enable `wifi` by default for all targets.
> - Added imx8mmsolidrun meta layer.
> - [TBC] Added support for full image update.
> - [TBC] Prevent duplicate deployment. 
>    - Modifed to check if the commit has been deployed before making the deployment. This will prevent an issue where a previous deploy can get over-written which in turn would break the rollback functionality.
> - [parsec] Upgraded parsec-se-driver to 0.5.0, parsec-service to 0.7.2 and parsec-tool to 0.3.0.
>    - Set the parsec sock directory permission to 0750
> - [TBC] Simplified the partition layout - https://github.com/PelionIoT/meta-mbed-edge/pull/51 
> - [TBC] Generic `mx8mm` support - Instead of using the imx8mmevk target, let's use mx8mm to generalize the support as the current changed should run on all targets. Generalizing thus to the SoC level target `mx8mm`.
> - [TBC] Removed `networkmanager-nmtui` and instead installed `networkmanager-nmcli`.
> - [TBC] use miniuart bt dtoverlay to enable bluetooth
>    - just use standard console and ble settings
> - [TBC] Use standard tty config, fixes ble

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Other] Change default image file name for MFG tool - `MFGTOOL_FLASH_IMAGE = "console-image-lmp"`.
- [Space conservation] Removed meta-arm-autonomy layer.
- [Upgrades]
    - Added support for full image update.
    - Prevent duplicate deployment. Modifed to check if the commit has been deployed before making the deployment. This will prevent an issue where a previous deploy can get over-written which in turn would break the rollback functionality.
- [parsec] Upgraded parsec-se-driver to 0.5.0, parsec-service to 0.7.2 and parsec-tool to 0.3.0.
   - Set the parsec socket directory permission to 0750.
- [Image] Simplified the partition layout - https://github.com/PelionIoT/meta-mbed-edge/pull/51 .
- [build process] Generic `mx8mm` support - Instead of using the imx8mmevk target, let's use mx8mm to generalize the support as the current changed should run on all targets. Generalizing thus to the SoC level target `mx8mm`.
- [OS general] 
    - Removed `networkmanager-nmtui` and instead installed `networkmanager-nmcli`.
    - Enable `wifi` by default for all targets.
```

> - [TBC] removes golang overrides to use native version 1.15.8 provided by current yocto branch

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [golang] removes golang overrides (1.14.4) to use native version 1.15.8 provided by current yocto branch.
```

- [edge-proxy] Modified `edge-proxy` configuration to add new forwarding address for containers domain. 
   - Added `containers.local` to the list of known hosts.
- Updated `info` utility to v2.0.9 and `identity-tool` to v2.0.8.
- [fluentbit] Reduced the default FluentBit logging level to warning.
- [mbed-fcce] Upgrades factory-configurator-client-example to v4.9.0.
- No longer required to specify this `vendor-id=42fa7b48-1a65-43aa-890f-8c704daade54` to unlock the rich node features in Pelion web portal. Portal now reads the Gateway capabilities from gateway's FeatureMgmt LwM2M object 33457 and then enable/disable the UI associated to the feature.

### Bug fixes

> - [info] The `info` command must be run with `sudo` on LMP-based boards (UltraZed-EG IOCC and i.MX 8M Mini EVK).

Reviewer 2: These need to converted into format whereby we say "Fixed issue whereby info-command required root access on ..."
LMP -> LmP.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [info] Fixed issue whereby info-command required root access on all LmP supported boards.
```

> - [info] The `info` command on the UltraZed-EG IOCC attempts to read the CPU temperature when the temperature file does not exist. This results in a cat error message.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [info] Fixed issue whereby the `info` command on the UltraZed-EG IOCC attempts to read the CPU temperature when the temperature file does not exist. This resulted in a cat error message.
```

> - The LmP updates don't accept firmware updates with numbers 10 and 100. By default, the tenth update you perform is version 0.0.10, which fails. To work around this problem, avoid software version numbers with 10 and 100:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Fixed issue whereby the LmP updates did not accept firmware updates with numbers 10 and 100. 
```

>    - For example, you can go from 0.0.9 to 0.0.11 by editing the `MAIN` component version information in a file called `~/Pelion_Edge_Credentials/.manifest-dev-tool$ cat update.version.yaml`. Change `MAIN: 0.0.10` to `MAIN: 0.0.11`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

#### AVNET ZU3EG

- If you enable kernel configurations [CPU_IDLE](https://cateee.net/lkddb/web-lkddb/CPU_IDLE.html) and [PREEMPT](https://cateee.net/lkddb/web-lkddb/PREEMPT.html), the LmP release including PetaLinux 2020.2 does not work in a stable manner. Our default configuration has those disabled. If you have any issues with those configurations, please contact Xilinx support.
- You cannot do firmware update from Edge 2.2 to Edge 2.3 on the AVNET ZU3EG board due to LmP v79 release FPGA-support changes. The changes have interdepencies between the BOOT image and kernel image and as in the current update you can only update ther kernel image it fails to boot up correctly with the Edge 2.2 based BOOT image (as it does not supply the required updated device tree/FPGA files etc.). So, update to Edge 2.3 image must be done with manual flashing on ZU3EG targets.
- You can program the Ethernet MAC address to the EEPROM on the board. Please see [the Xilinx support documentation](https://www.xilinx.com/support/answers/70176.html) on how to do this with the `i2c` commands.

### Limitations

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

- Firmware update from Edge 2.2 to Edge 2.3, from Edge 2.3 to Edge 2.4, and from Edge 2.2 to Edge 2.4 is not possible on any of the supported platforms.  Partition table changes and in some cases FPGA support changes prevent the upgrading between these versions.   To update between these versions, manual flashing is required.  OTA update is still supported within the versions.  
```

   - The storage of secure assets, such as keys, is separated on a per-client basis: Assets created by one client can't be accessed by another.
   - Use `securityContext` in the Pod specifications to restrict the privileges and access control of an application to system resources.
- [edge-core] Updated Edge Core to [0.18.0](https://github.com/PelionIoT/mbed-edge/releases/tag/0.18.0).
   - Start edge-core service `After=network-online.target` which is after gateway acquires an IP address.
   - Restrict access to mbed configuration `/userdata/mbed`, setting permissions to 700 with owner=root.
   - Added BYOC_MODE build flow. This enables you to inject the certificates into the image at runtime rather than compile time hence enabling you to create generic developer builds.
- [edge-tool] Added [Edge tool v0.2.0](https://github.com/PelionIoT/mbed-edge/tree/master/edge-tool).
   - Installed only when build with `BYOC_MODE=ON`.
   - Converts the development certificate to CBOR configuration object which is then provided to Edge Core as command line argument.
- [new board support] The following boards are now supported in LmP.
    - RPi3b+
    - RPi4

>     - SolidRun Hummingboard when booting from SD card.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - SolidRun Hummingboard Ripple & Pulse when booting from SD card via `imx8mmsolidrun` meta layer.
```

           - Added imx8mmsolidrun meta layer.
- [Container Orchestration] Network policy controller 
   - Adds [kube-router](https://github.com/PelionIoT/kube-router), [coredns](https://coredns.io/), and removes older edge-net to support sophisticated networking policies between containers and the host
   - Allows kubelet and kube-router to function without external network. Supports offline cache mode.
- [Board specific improvements] 
    - UZ3EG - align wks.in file usage with i.mx8

>     - RPI - use miniurt bt dtoverlay to enable bluetooth 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - RPI - use miniUART  BT dtoverlay to enable bluetooth.
```

>              - use standard tty console config

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
             - use standard TTY console config
```

>              - fixes ble to work properly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
             - BLE now work correctly.
```

>     - Boards with Nordic nRF5: dependency to pc-ble-driver into local.conf config, default **off** 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - New recipe for Nordic Semiconductor´s `pc-ble-driver`, configuration in `local.conf` which defaults to **off** .
```

- [Other] Change default image file name for MFG tool - `MFGTOOL_FLASH_IMAGE = "console-image-lmp"`.
- [Space conservation] Removed meta-arm-autonomy layer.
- [Upgrades]
    - Added support for full image update.
    - Prevent duplicate deployment. Modifed to check if the commit has been deployed before making the deployment. This will prevent an issue where a previous deploy can get over-written which in turn would break the rollback functionality.
- [parsec] Upgraded parsec-se-driver to 0.5.0, parsec-service to 0.7.2 and parsec-tool to 0.3.0.
   - Set the parsec socket directory permission to 0750.
- [Image] [Simplified the partition layout](https://github.com/PelionIoT/meta-mbed-edge/pull/51).

> - [build process] Generic `mx8mm` support - Instead of using the imx8mmevk target, let's use mx8mm to generalize the support as the current changed should run on all targets. Generalizing thus to the SoC level target `mx8mm`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [build process] Generic `mx8mm` support - Instead of using the imx8mmevk target, let's use mx8mm to generalize the support as the current changes should run on all targets. Generalizing thus to the SoC level target `mx8mm`.
```

changed -> changes? Would make more sense to me. @AnotherButler - please check.

- [OS general] 

>     - Removed `networkmanager-nmtui` and instead installed `networkmanager-nmcli`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Replaced `networkmanager-nmtui` with `networkmanager-nmcli`.
```

>     - Enable `wifi` by default for all targets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Enable Wi-Fi by default for all targets.
```

> - [golang] removes golang overrides (1.14.4) to use native version 1.15.8 provided by current yocto branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [golang] Removed golang overrides (1.14.4) to use native version 1.15.8 provided by current Yocto branch.
```

- [edge-proxy] Modified `edge-proxy` configuration to add new forwarding address for containers domain. 
   - Added `containers.local` to the list of known hosts.
- Updated `info` utility to v2.0.9 and `identity-tool` to v2.0.8.
- [fluentbit] Reduced the default FluentBit logging level to warning.
- [mbed-fcce] Upgrades factory-configurator-client-example to v4.9.0.

> - No longer required to specify this `vendor-id=42fa7b48-1a65-43aa-890f-8c704daade54` to unlock the rich node features in Pelion web portal. Portal now reads the Gateway capabilities from gateway's FeatureMgmt LwM2M object 33457 and then enable/disable the UI associated to the feature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- It is no longer required to specify `vendor-id=42fa7b48-1a65-43aa-890f-8c704daade54` to unlock the rich node features in Pelion web portal. Portal now reads the Gateway capabilities from gateway's FeatureMgmt LwM2M object 33457 and then enables the UI associated to the features.
```

### Bug fixes

> - [info] Fixed issue whereby info-command required root access on all LmP supported boards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [info] Fixed issue whereby `info`-command required `root` access on all LmP supported boards.
```

> - [info] Fixed issue whereby the `info` command on the UltraZed-EG IOCC attempts to read the CPU temperature when the temperature file does not exist. This resulted in a cat error message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [info] Fixed issue whereby the `info` command on the UltraZed-EG IOCC attempts to read the CPU temperature when the temperature file does not exist. This resulted in a error message from `cat` -command.
```
